This repository contains the hardware design and firmware templates for Celeritous' newest processor module. This board is based on the ST Micro Cortex M3 Low power STM32L151/152 processor line. 

The current revision is 1.0 and this is the initial commit for review and comment. 

It is being released as Open Source Hardware under the CERN OSH License ver 1.2

All hardware design files are in KiCAD format

All Firmware files will be based on code generated by and for the STM32MXCube code initialization generator and Atollic TrueStudio development environment. 

If users wish to adapt this for use with the Arduino environment they are welcome to do so and we will gladly post it, but our main focus will continue to be based on the TrueStudio environment.

The board has the following features:
1. Small form factor 2.0" x 0.800" (same form factor as STM32F103 "Blue Pill" board but is NOT pin compatible
2. 2 x 20 pin 0.100" pitch headers spaced 0.700 apart (Different spacing than Blue Pill)
3. On-board 3.3V regulator to allow +5V external power
4. External +3.3V power also accepted
5. Board power source is jumper selectable between un-regulated external +5 or external regulated +3.3V
6. Regulated, fused +3.3V power available for user when +5V input is used
7. Power inputs are fused, inverse voltage protected and overvoltage protected
8. 1 USB host/client port with Mini-B connector soldered to board - won't shear off board
9. USB port transient protected, includes 1.5K pull-up 
10. USB port is by default un-powered but may be powered from +5V or +3.3V by installing jumper
11. Board cannot be powered from the USB port. Power is diode isolated to block external USB port sopurces.
12. 65K On-board I2C EEPROM (8K x 8) included. May be upgraded to 256K (32K x 8)
13. 12MHz and 32kHz crystals both included to allow use of RTC
14. VBATT input provided to keep RTC alive during loss of power
15. Power and User defined LEDs
16. On-board I2C Pull-ups included for I2C1 bus which is used for the EEPROM
17. On-Board momentary reset switch
18. On-board Boot mode jumper
19. On-board SWDIO header for ST-Lin V2 Programmer/Debugger module
20. STM32L152CC Processor with 256Kbytes of flash memory and up to 32MHz internal clock speed in LQFP-48 package
21. 4 Layer board for low EMI/RFI
